Add a guide for adding instructions to Pulley (#9765)
bytecodealliance/wasmtime: pulley/CONTRIBUTING.md

The first thing to do is to probably add a new opcode to Pulley itself as
Pulley probably can't execute this operation just yet. Here we're interested in
signed 32-bit division.

Pull up `pulley/src/lib.rs` and you'll be editing the `for_each_op!` macro
definition. If this is a "rare" opcode you can edit the `for_each_extended_op!`
macro instead. The syntax is the same between the two macros.

Here this is a simple instruction, so let's add it directly:

```rust
/// `dst = src1 / src2` (signed)
xdiv32_s = XDiv32S { operands: BinaryOperands<XReg> };
```

This defines the disassembled name of the instruction (`i32_div_s`), the Rust
structure for the instruction (`I32DivS`), and immediates in the instruction
itself. In this case it's a binop using integer registers (`XReg`).

Rerun our test command and we see:

```
$ cargo run --features pulley wast --target pulley64 ./tests/misc_testsuite/control-flow.wast
   Compiling pulley-interpreter v29.0.0 (/home/alex/code/wasmtime/pulley)
error[E0046]: not all trait items implemented, missing: `i32_div_s`
   --> pulley/src/interp.rs:807:1
    |
807 | impl OpVisitor for Interpreter<'_> {

>     | ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ missing `i32_div_s` in implementation

Author: Heh you can see I switched halfway through :)

we'll add:

```rust
fn xdiv32_s(&mut self, operands: BinaryOperands<XReg>) -> ControlFlow<Done> {
    let me = self.current_pc::<crate::XDiv32S>();
    let a = self.state[operands.src1].get_i32();
    let b = self.state[operands.src2].get_i32();
    match a.checked_div(b) {
        Some(result) => {
            self.state[operands.dst].set_i32(result);
            ControlFlow::Continue(())
        }
        None => ControlFlow::Break(self.done_trap(me)),
    }
}
```

Note that division needs to handle the case that the divisor is 0 or causes an
overflow, hence the use of `checked_div` here. If that happens then a trap is
returned, otherwise interpretation will continue. Also note that the `get_i32`
method is used to specifically match the type of the instruction itself, signed
32-bit division. Look around at other instructions in `interp.rs` for
inspiration of how to do various operations.

Running our test again we get the same error as before! That leads us to the
next part...

#### Adding a Cranelift Lowering

Next up we need to actually fix the error at hand, a new lowering rule needs to
be added to Cranelift. Here we'll be working in

> `cranelift/codegen/src/isa/pulley_shared/lower.isle`. Cranelift instructions and
> ISLE rules for our new `xdiv32_s` instruction are automatically generated from
> the `for_each_op!` macro, so all we need to do is to add a new lowering rule.
> That'll look like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cranelift/codegen/src/isa/pulley_shared/lower.isle`.

Our ISLE lowering rules are generally written like this:

\```lisp
(rule (lower <CLIF>)
      <Pulley>)
\```

This means "when lowering Cranelift's mid-level IR down to Pulley bytecode, and we match the snippet `<CLIF>`, replace it with `<Pulley>`". (For more details, see the [ISLE Language Reference](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/blob/main/cranelift/isle/docs/language-reference.md) and [How ISLE is Integrated with Cranelift](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/blob/main/cranelift/docs/isle-integration.md).)

In our case, we need to match an `sdiv` CLIF instruction that is operating on 32-bit values (this is the `(has_type $I32 ...)` bit) and then replace it with our new Pulley `xdiv32_s` instruction:
```

```
;;;; Rules for `idiv` ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;

(rule (lower (has_type $I32 (sdiv a b)))
      (pulley_xdiv32_s a b))
```

> Here the `lower` "rule" is what we're adding and is the main function used to
> lower from CLIF to Pulley bytecode. THe `pulley_xdiv32_s` constructor was
> auto-generated for us as part of `cranelift/codegen/meta`'s build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that ISLE constructors for Pulley instructions, including the `pulley_xdivs32_s`
constructor for our new `xdiv32_s` Pulley instruction, are automatically
generated from the `for_each_op!` macro.
```

```
$ cargo run --features pulley wast --target pulley64 ./tests/misc_testsuite/control-flow.wast
    Finished `dev` profile [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 13.50s
     Running `target/debug/wasmtime wast --target pulley64 ./tests/misc_testsuite/control-flow.wast`
```

If we run the test suite though we'll see:

```
$ cargo test --test wast control-flow.wast
    Finished `test` profile [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 29.14s
     Running tests/wast.rs (target/debug/deps/wast-f83a3ee5e5dbacde)

running 6 tests
...F.F
failures:

---- CraneliftPulley/./tests/misc_testsuite/control-flow.wast ----
this test is flagged as should-fail but it succeeded

---- CraneliftPulley/pooling/./tests/misc_testsuite/control-flow.wast ----
this test is flagged as should-fail but it succeeded

failures:
    CraneliftPulley/./tests/misc_testsuite/control-flow.wast
    CraneliftPulley/pooling/./tests/misc_testsuite/control-flow.wast

test result: FAILED. 4 passed; 2 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured; 4086 filtered out; finished in 0.05s

error: test failed, to rerun pass `--test wast`
```

This indicates that the test was previously flagged as "should fail", but that

> assertion is no longer true! Update `crates/wast-util/src/lib.rs` about the new
> test passing and we'll see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assertion is no longer true! Update the `WastTest::should_fail` method in `crates/wast-util/src/lib.rs` so that it expects the test to pass and we'll see:
```

```
$ cargo test --test wast control-flow.wast
    Finished `test` profile [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.74s
     Running tests/wast.rs (target/debug/deps/wast-f83a3ee5e5dbacde)

running 6 tests
......
test result: ok. 6 passed; 0 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured; 4086 filtered out; finished in 0.05s
```

> Success! Let's see if we caused any other tests to start passing...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Success!

But we aren't quite done yet: the new lowerings we added might have made additional tests that previously failed start passing as well. If so, then we also want to mark those tests as expected to pass now. We can double check by running the full `wast` test suite:
```

test result: ok. 1364 passed; 0 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured; 2728 filtered out; finished in 0.93s
```

Alas, maybe next time!

#### Clean up and make a PR

All that's left now is to clean things up, document anything necessary, and make
a pull request.

> Thanks for helping out!

Reviewer: Maybe also link to this PR at the end?

```suggestion
To view the complete pull request that implemented `xdiv32_s` and `xand32` Pulley instructions and got `./tests/misc_testsuite/control-flow.wast` passing (and also introduced this documentation) check out https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/pull/9765

Thanks for helping out!
```
